= Resource file format

A <i>resource information file</i> is a special plaintext file
accompanying each resource in the OpenRubyRMK. It contains copyright
information about the respective resource which is parsed by the
backend library and exposed to the frontend through the
OpenRubyRMK::Backend::Resource class, which can be used to display
this information to the user. They’re written in YAML[http://yaml.org]
and can easily be edited with any kind of text editor.

== File format

Each resource information file consists of a (usually empty) YAML
header and the actual YAML markup, which is required to define four
keys with the appropriate values:

[year]
  The copyright year, i.e. the year when a resource was first
  published by its original author.
[author]
  The original author of a resource who is holding the copyright on
  it. This isn’t necessaryly a real person (although it usually is),
  but can also be a legal person such as a company or organisation.
[license]
  Short name of the license, which should generally be understood
  without having to read the whole license text. The following list
  of commonly known license names is probably not exhaustive, but
  generally you should try to stick to it. If a resource has a
  completely foreign license, please place "special" as the license
  name so users know they have to read the full license text.

  * Creative Commons license abbreviations (CC-BY, CC-BY-SA, ...)
  * GNU license abbreviations (GPL, LGPL, GPLv2, ...)
  * MIT license abbreviation (MIT)
  * BSD license abbreviation (BSDL)
  * Ruby license abbreviation (Ruby, Ruby's)
  * GNU Free Documentation license (GFDL)
  * "Public Domain" for public domain work. Note that different
    countries have different requirements for what is considered
    to be "public domain".
[extra]
  Additional information on the license. It depends on the specific
  resource what to put here, but if your resource came together with a
  README, a copyright or license file, a usage notice or whatever, you
  want to copy its contents into this field. If you put "special" as
  the license name above, please place the whole license text here.

The order of the keys doesn’t really matter, but for the sake of
readability you should stick to the order in which they’re listed
above, i.e. year-author-license-extra. This will ease everyone’s
reading of your files.

== File name

Naming the resource information file is quite straightforward. If your
resource is named <tt>foo.png</tt>, place the resource information
file in the same directory as the resource file and name it
<tt>foo.png.yml</tt>, i.e. the name of the resource file plus the
<tt>.yml</tt> suffix (which indicates it’s a YAML file). Done.

== Example

Here is an example of a resource information file for the Ruby
programming language’s logo (which is actually included in the default
ORR distribution):

  ---
  year: 2006
  author: Yukihiro Matsumoto
  license: CC-BY-SA 2.5
  extra: >-
    The Ruby Logo is Copyright (c) 2006, Yukihiro Matsumoto. It is licensed
    under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5
    agreement:
    
    http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/
    
    We ask that you do not use the logo to represent something other than
    the Ruby Programming language. If you have questions about the logo,
    please join the VIT-Discuss mailing list and ask your questions there:
    
    http://rubyforge.org/mailman/listinfo/vit-discuss/
    
    Thank you,
    
    The Ruby Visual Identity Team

Lets walk through it step by step. Starting at the top, we find this
line:

  ---

This is the YAML header separator which divides the header from the
markup body. The header is empty, so the separator is directly placed
at the top of the file. If you want, you could even ommit it, but for
the sake of having a syntactically valid YAML file you should leave it
there.

Next we find the definition of the copyright year:

  year: 2006

This tells us that whoever created the resource did so in 2006.

  author: Yukihiro Matsumoto

This is the guy who created the Ruby logo. If you’re a Ruby
programmer, you probably know him--he’s the inventor of Ruby. Note
that you should try to find out the author’s real name rather than
placing a pseudonyme here as this ensures optimal legal
defense. However, if you can’t figure it out for godness’ sake, just
put the pseudonyme, but please *do* place something here, even if its
"unknown" (never do this).

  license: CC-BY-SA-2.5

Mr. Matsumoto was so kind to license the beautiful Ruby logo under the
CreativeCommons by-sharealike license, tied to version 2.5, so we
include this information in the resource information file.

  extra: >-
    The Ruby Logo is...

<tt>>-</tt> introduces a YAML text block on the next line. What
follows is the full content of the +LICENSE+ file that comes with the
Ruby logo if you download it from its {official
site}[http://rubyidentity.org].

That’s all. Place this file next to the resource <tt>ruby.png</tt> as
<tt>ruby.png.yml</tt> and you can use it in the ORR.
